Prompt: A log cabin in a snowy pine forest

I received the description above from Matthew and immediately conjured up the image in my head of what I was going to create. It was a short and simple description, yet one I felt allowed for much interpretation in how the scene could be depicted.The image I sketched out on paper was one of the log cabin not as a centerpiece, but rather a part of a much larger scene. I sketched out a whole scene where a snowy path led to the cabin, which was situated alongside multiple pine trees scattered throughout the background and foreground. Another detail I included was a jagged snowy mountain range in the background, which I felt would most likely be one of the more interesting challenges to tackle. I conceptualized using basic primitives to achieve most of the scene, with triangles used for the pine trees, and rects/quads for the log cabin.

When coding the scene, I formulated a plan to tackle each element layer by layer. I would start with the background and work my way up. I realized I immediately regretted this decision as it would mean I would have to create the mountain range first. Deciding to face this challenge head on, I used several rects of varying white shades to create the ground and mountain range, as well as a pastel yellow sun. I had to think about the varying strategies I could use to make a realistically jagged mountain. At first, I tried using white triangles to make the edges, but then realized it would take a lot of manual tinkering to properly achieve the effect. I then came up with the idea to use shapes with the same color as the sky to carve out holes in the mountain. This proved to be a worthwhile strategy, as I felt I was able to get a better looking mountain rather than individually building each peak, and I could use arcs to carve out more curved structures.

The next thing I dealt with was creating a snowy path in the ground near the bottom of the canvas leading to the cabin. This gave me more trouble than I was anticipating since I had to find a way to make a weird curvy shape and fill it without having the color spread to unintended areas. Eventually, I was able to get it done after experimenting with bezier curves and using begin/end shape to properly fill it with a darker grey color. The cabin was much easier to work with, as it only required the use of rects/quads/lines to create.

The pine trees were the next hurdle to overcome. Making the tree itself was easy as it was merely triangles and a small rect. The issue came with populating the scene with multiple to create a forest. From the start, I knew I would most likely use a loop to achieve this. After creating one tree, I used the calculations and distances to make a helper function that takes in parameters to draw a copy of the tree in any area of the canvas. I would then call that function using varying arrays of coordinates and scales to plant more trees across the scene while using push/pop to isolate the scaling.

The final challenge came with my idea to include snowfall as an animated element to the piece. It took a lot of thought as to how the effect can be achieved, but I eventually settled on using translate to move each snowflake down the y axis. After much experimentation with the effect, I used the constrain function to stop the snowflakes from falling off the edge once it reaches the bottom of the canvas, allowing the effect to constantly remain static afterwards.